### What is TrLab and TrLab Assistant?

[TrLab](https://github.com/davgutavi/trlab-application) is a genomic data analysis tool, developed by Dr. David Gutiérrez Avilés of the University of Seville, which allows finding patterns and hidden information in three-dimensional time-dependent datasets using the TriGen triclustering technique.

This tool called TrLab Assistant brings new utilities to the application, giving the option to generate new datasets from the genomic repository of [NCBI GEO](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/) and generate reports of results from the data generated by the TrLab tool.

### How to use TrLab Assistant

#### Setup

The first time you open *TrLab Assistant* what you should do is to indicate the folder where TrLab is installed, usually it will have a *format TrLabX.X* where *X.X* is the version number. To do this, follow the steps below:

- Click the button in the center area of the tool in the "Download Assistant" tab.

- Clicking on it will open a window where you will have to search for the address where you have installed the program. Generally, in Windows, you will have to follow "Operating System (C:)" > "Users" > "Username" > "Folder where the installation is" > "TrLabX.X".
 
- Once selected you must press the button that says "Select" to save the path.

- If everything went well, a text box will appear indicating the path of the installation you have added and you will be asked to restart the app to save the changes. If you have made a mistake in the path, you can click the button again and select the correct one.

- In case you made a mistake and closed the application or want to change the path for whatever reason, go to the "About" tab and click on the button that says "Change TrLab installation path" and follow the same steps as before.

#### Normal use

Once the TrLab installation path has been configured, the application is ready to use. This application is divided into two distinct sections, the "Download Assistant" and the "Report Assistant".

##### Download Assistant

The download assitant consists of several parameters:

- **Search bar**: this is a search engine for terms with internal conditions set, to avoid that the datasets found are not suitable to be processed by the tool. It should be noted that this search bar acts exactly the same as NCBI GEO's own search bar.

- **Search limit selector**: this parameter selects the number of results returned by the search, it is a number between one and five hundred, this is because searches higher than this number cannot be performed by this application. This parameter is useful, since in the dataset consumption option you can download all the datasets searched, therefore, you can choose the number of search results you want to download.

- **Search button**: when pressed, the search terms in the search bar are processed on the server, and a table of search results is generated from the search results.

- **Search results table**: together with the option to search the datasets, it was decided to implement a table with the search results with data such as the access identifier of the dataset, its description, its publication date, the organism from which it comes and the number of samples that make up the dataset. In addition, a column was implemented to select the datasets to be downloaded; by default, all the datasets searched will be processed; however, if any dataset is unchecked, it will be the only one to be processed.

- **Download button**: when pressed, the selected datasets are downloaded. It is important to emphasize again what has been said in the description of the search results table, in case none of the datasets have been unchecked in the table selection column, all of them will be processed, and in case one or more have been unchecked, the unchecked ones will be processed.

##### Report Assistant

The report assistant consists of two parameters:

- **Results folder selection button**: this button displays a window similar to the one that displays the TrLab installation folder selection button. In this window we have to find and select the folder that TrLab has created with the results of the experiment of a dataset. Once selected, a preview of the PDF to download will be generated. If you wish, instead of downloading the PDF by using the specific button for this task, you can do: "right click" > "Print" > "Print as PDF" and a PDF similar to the one that would be created with the button will be generated.

- **Download PDF report button**: once the folder with the results of an experiment is selected, in case you want the results report in PDF, you can generate a report with the data of the experiment. Clicking the button will start a rendering process that will create the PDF and finally download it to the folder we indicate.